# Ruby CLI Expense Tracking App

- [Ruby CLI Expense Tracking App](#ruby-cli-expense-tracking-app)
  - [Description](#description)
  - [Installation & How to Run](#installation--how-to-run)
    - [Setup](#setup)
    - [Running](#running)
  - [Features](#features)
  - [Authors](#authors)
  
## Description 
**Xpense** is a Ruby CLI application that allows users to track and analyze their expenses. 

Users will be able to input their daily expenses into the app and analyze their expenses by dates and payment methods. 

Xpense also includes support for foreign currencies and offers a fully-fledged exchange rate calculator using live, up-to-date rates from the [API Fixer.io](https://fixer.io). 

Xpense is a great tool for users of all ages.

## Installation & How to Run

### Setup
1. Clone the repository to your local machine using `git clone <url>`.
2. In the project's directory, run `bundle install` to install all the gems and dependencies associated with the project.
3. To set up your database, run `rake db:migate`. 
4. To seed your database, run `rake db:seed`.

### Running 
To run the program, type: `ruby bin/run.rb`.

## Features 

1. **Creating an account and logging in with a password:** When you open the program, it will ask you if you are a new or returning user. If you have used Xpense before, you will be prompted to enter your username and password. Otherwise, you can create a new username and password. Passwords are stored securely using `bcrypt`. Passwords are stored in the database as digests from which the actual user password cannot be recovered. When creating an account, Xpense will also ask users for their base currency. Users can either type the 3 letter currency code or choose from a list of hundreds of supported currencies.
2. **Entering new expenses:** Users will be asked to enter a date (month, day, year), amount, description, and payment method. The app will not allow users to input dates the are in the future. When inputting the amount, users will be asked if the expense was logged in their base currency or in a different currency. If the expense was incurred in a different currency, Xpense will take care of the conversion for the user!
3. **Reviewing expenses by date or payment methods:** When a user chooses to review their expenses, they will have the options to group expenses by week, month, year, and payment method. All expenses will be displayed in a table generated by the `formatador` gem. 
4. **Deleting and updating existing expenses:** Users can delete any expense from their log of transactions. They can also update any field associated with a specific transaction (amount, date, description, payment method). If a user accidentally enters the delete/update menu, they will have the option to return to the main menu. 
5. **Currency exchange calculator:** Users can convert any amount of any supported currency to another. Users can either type the 3 letter currency code or choose from a list of hundreds of supported currencies. A progress bar will indicate progress as the conversion is executed (once again using `formatador`).

## Authors 
* Drew Beckmen (drew.beckmen@yale.edu)
* Jack Ma (peiyao.ma@student.manchester.ac.uk)

